<ol><li>Introduction to Postman:</li></ol><ul><li>Postman is a popular API testing tool that allows you to send HTTP requests to a server and analyze the responses.</li><li>It is available as a Chrome browser extension, as a native app for Windows, macOS, and Linux, and as a web app.</li><li>Postman makes it easy to test APIs by allowing you to create collections of requests, configure request headers and parameters, and view response data in various formats.</li></ul><ol start="2"><li>Setting up Postman:</li></ol><ul><li>If you don't already have it, download and install the Postman app from the following link: <a href="https://www.postman.com/downloads/" target="_new">https://www.postman.com/downloads/</a></li><li>After installing, launch the app and create a new account or sign in with an existing account.</li><li>You can also use Postman as a Chrome browser extension. To do this, go to the Chrome web store and search for "Postman". Click on "Add to Chrome" and then click on "Add extension" in the pop-up window.</li></ul><ol start="3"><li>Creating a Collection:</li></ol><ul><li>A collection is a group of related API requests.</li><li>To create a new collection in Postman, click on the "Collections" tab in the top left corner, then click on the "Create Collection" button.</li><li>Give your collection a name and optional description, then click on the "Create" button.</li></ul><ol start="4"><li>Adding a Request to a Collection:</li></ol><ul><li>To add a request to a collection, click on the collection in the left-side panel, then click on the "Add Request" button.</li><li>Give your request a name, then select the HTTP method (e.g. GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) from the dropdown menu.</li><li>In the "URL" field, enter the endpoint of the API you want to test.</li><li>You can also configure request headers and parameters in the respective fields.</li></ul><ol start="5"><li>Sending a Request:</li></ol><ul><li>To send a request, click on the "Send" button. The response from the server will be displayed in the "Response" panel.</li><li>You can view the response data in various formats (e.g. JSON, HTML, XML) by clicking on the "Pretty" dropdown menu.</li><li>You can also use the "Tests" tab to write JavaScript code that verifies the response data.</li></ul><ol start="6"><li>Viewing and Managing Requests:</li></ol><ul><li>You can view and manage your requests in the "History" tab. This tab shows a list of all the requests you have sent, along with the response status and time taken.</li><li>You can filter the list by status, time, and other criteria using the search bar and dropdown menus.</li><li>You can also edit, delete, and duplicate requests from the "History" tab.</li></ul><ol start="7"><li>Importing and Exporting Collections:</li></ol><ul><li>You can import and export collections as JSON files. This is useful for sharing collections with others or for backing up your work.</li><li>To import a collection, click on the "Import" button in the "Collections" tab and select the JSON file.</li><li>To export a collection, right-click on the collection in the left-side panel and select "Export".</li></ul><ol start="8"><li>Using Environment Variables:</li></ol><ul><li>Environment variables allow you to store and reuse values across requests in a collection.</li><li>To create an environment variable, click on the "Manage Environments" button in the top right corner, then click on the "Add" button.</li><li>Give your environment variable a name and value, then click on the "Add</li></ul></div>
<ol start="9"><li>Using the Postman API:</li></ol><ul><li>Postman also provides its own API that allows you to programmatically access and manipulate your collections and environments.</li><li>You can use the Postman API to automate tasks such as running collections and setting environment variables.</li><li>To use the Postman API, you will need to generate an API key. You can do this by going to the "Integrations" tab in your Postman account settings and clicking on the "Generate" button under the "API Key" section.</li><li>The Postman API documentation provides a list of available endpoints and instructions on how to use them.</li></ul><ol start="10"><li>Tips and Best Practices:</li></ol><ul><li>Here are some tips and best practices to keep in mind when using Postman for API testing:</li><li>Use descriptive names for your requests and collections to keep your work organized.</li><li>Use environment variables to store values that might change between test runs (e.g. API keys, server URLs).</li><li>Use the "Tests" tab to verify the correctness of the response data.</li><li>Use the Postman API to automate tasks and integrate Postman with your continuous integration workflow.</li></ul>
